>> Kyle Simpson: So we've already
seen multiple usages of Closure but
I wanna take you towards one of
the most important of the usages of
Closure.
>> Kyle Simpson: There is a notion in
functional programming of defining
things in a general way and
then specializing those things.
So moving from generalization
to specialization.
So I want you to think, if I had
a function that took three inputs,
took an x, y, and a z, and
maybe added those three things
together and gave me the result.
So if I call that function and
I passed in one, two,
three as it's input, so
I'd get the value six back out.
Everybody with me?
That would be the general
representation of that function.
The most general form of it is
that it takes three inputs.
Now, what if some point
in my application I said,
I'd like a slightly more specialized
version of that function.
One that already knows what
the first of the three inputs is.
So maybe one that already knows that
the first input should be the value
five.
>> Kyle Simpson: That specialized
function, then,
would expect only two inputs.
The second and the third of the original,
is everybody following me or
did I lose you?
Too abstract?
If we took the function foo
that took three inputs and
produced another one that
only expected two inputs, and
it was hard coded to know the first
one is already going to be five,
that would be a specialization
of the generalized
foo.
>> Kyle Simpson: Here
is an add function it takes an x and
a y, and I'm going to use, on line 11.
I am going to create a new function that
is a specialization of the add function
And I'm going to call it addTo10.
I'm going to use a utility called partial,
and I'll explain that utility in a moment.
But looking at addTo10,
can we see how addTo10 is a specialization
of add?
>> Kyle Simpson: It's a specialization of
add wherein the first argument is already
known, and it's fixed to be the value 10.
So when we call addTo10(32),
we only had to provide one input.
And it already knew, somehow magically,
to use the value 10.
And it's not magic at all really, is it?
If we look at how partial works,
partial takes in a function fn on line 5.
And then it takes in a list of other
arguments which I've gathered up into
the array firstArgs, and
it makes a new function called applied.
So this is yet
again a higher order function.
You see these all over the place now.
This is a machine making machine.
We return back a new function
that's expecting some more
arguments that I call last args.
And when you've provided
the first args and
the last args,
it calls the original function FN.
It calls that FN because we've closed
over FN, and it uses first args because
we closed over first args.
>> Kyle Simpson: It's Closure.
It remembers those things.
>> Kyle Simpson: That's how
add 10 remembers not only the add
function but also the value 10,
It remembers those things via closure.
>> Kyle Simpson: This
technique of taking
a generalized function and
pre settings some of these inputs
is called partial application.
Even if you never heard that
term before partial application?
>> Kyle Simpson: We said earlier that
Apply is kind of the academic term for
passing in arguments, right?
So partial application implies that
we're only partially passing in some of
the arguments,
which is what we're doing here.
We only passed in one of
the two expected arguments.
And we created a specialized function
that would remember what we passed in and
use that later.
Here the later is just two lines away,
but as a matter of fact,
that closure could hold onto that for
as long as we need it to.
It could be an entirely
different part of the program.
It could be actually on a different
timeline where it's in response to
some event in the future.
Doesn't really matter,
the closure's gonna hold onto that
information as long as necessary.
We can also call addTo10
as many times as we want.
If I said addTo10 32 and I said
addTo10 11, gonna give it 10 plus 11.
Call it as many times as I want.
So what I've done is I've taken
a utility that was generalized and
I have made potentially many more
specializations of that utility because I
could also make an add to 11 and
an add to 48, and an add to 619.
I can make as many of those
specialized utilities as I wanted.
Just call the partial and
pass in the values.
>> Kyle Simpson: This is important because
it is easier for
me to pass around addTo10 as a value.
It's a function value.
It is easier for me to pass that
around where it is collected
the add function reference and
the value 10 together and memorized them.
It's easier to pass that around than it
is to pass those two independent values
around separately.
Add to 10 is now a thing that
I can hand off to somebody and
say here if you wanna add things
to 10 just use this utility.
And they're like, cool thanks very much.
I don't have to say, well if you wanna add
things to ten here's add and here's ten.
I just give them the one package all
together.
>> Kyle Simpson: And
it's not really about
giving things to people.
This is about making Lego pieces
in our code that we can compose
the other parts of our program
In a more reasonable way.
So what's a practical example of this?
Well, let's imagine you
have an Ajax utility,
something that is gonna
make Ajax requests.
And the very first parameter of
that Ajax utility is the url.
And the second parameter is the data.
What if you knew a fixed set of URLs,
like,
you knew what the API endpoints were for
your application.
And so, instead of having the AJAX
utility used everywhere, and
you had all those URLs hard coded in.
What if, instead, you partially applied
your AJAX utility ahead of time,
at the very beginning.
And you went ahead and
stored the URL in each different variant.
So now, you have a variable
called lookup users and
that thing already knows to make the ajax
call with the lookup users API URL in it.
And all it's waiting for is the data.
And then you have another function
that you make called look up orders,
and that one is closed over a different
URL, and look up customers and so forth.
So, we can make these functions
that remember that information.
And then those pieces are easier to reason
about in the other parts of our code.
We're not cluttered up by all the URLs.
We just know, that's how I get my,
that 's how I get my customer list.
That's how I look up the orders.
Call the function and
just pass in the data.
So partial application is
process of generalizing,
of specializing a generalized incredibly
powerful happens all over the place.
In function parameters
it's very privelent technique.
>> Kyle Simpson: How
many of you have heard currying before?
You've heard the term currying.
For the longest time,
I thought that partial application and
currying were basically the same thing.
As a matter of fact I've been asked on
interviews and I have asked on interviews,
tell me what the difference is between
currying and partial application.
And I incorrectly responded, well,
they're kinda just two different
ways to do the same thing.
And that interviewer correctly called
BS on me, because that's not accurate.
There is a set of similarities
between these two patterns and
they are set a very important differences.
And if I were to ask you,
what's the difference or
first if I said how
are partial application and
currying alike?
>> Kyle Simpson: Do
you think you could answer
that with the crisp answer?
Could you tell me what is
similar about the two?
Maybe.
What if I said,
okay now tell me how they're different?
Could you tell me how they were different?
I wanna try to summarize for
you the difference and
the similarity between partial
application and currying.
This is partial application and there is
a lot of times I have seen this all over
the place where somebody will do partial
application, and they'll call it currying,
or even more often they'll do currying and
call it partial application.
We don't wanna use the wrong terms for
stuff, terminology matters cuz
we wanna communicate correctly.
So here's how they're the same,
here's what they are alike,
here is what's similar between
partial application and currying.
Partial application and
currying are two different techniques for
specializing a generalized function.
>> Kyle Simpson: If
you gave that answer in a job interview,
you'd probably get the job because
99.99% of your peers have never thought
to articulate it specifically like that.
Partial application and
currying are two different techniques for
specializing a generalized function.
How are they different?
Partial application takes some of
the arguments now, which is line 11.
And it takes all of the arguments later.
All the rest of the arguments later,
which is line 13.
So you can either do it now or later, but
you only get those two shots.
>> Kyle Simpson: Partial
application takes some of them now,
the rest of them later.
Currying on the hand says,
I think what we're going to do is
provide them a little bit at a time.
We might provide one now,
maybe another one a little bit later, and
maybe another one a little
bit later than that.
And maybe another one.
Or a few later, I'm gonna sort of
drip them in as I go across my code
base because I actually need to do
lots of levels of specialization.
Add only takes two, but
what if add took 12?
And I wanted to make one that
knew about the first three, and
then another one two more, and another one
that knew about three more from that, and
I could make lots of
levels of specialization.
And if I wanted to do that with partial
application, it might be a bit awkward
because add to 10 expects
everything on the next call.
If I wanted to provide only
some more of the inputs, but
not all of them, I'd have to do
another partial application on addTo10
to make another specialized function,
which I, of course, can do.
You can keep partially applying
a partially applied function, and
partially apply, and partially apply.
You can keep doing that as
many times as you want, but
you're gonna have to keep using
the partial utility to do that.
So it can get a little bit cumbersome.
Here's what currying says.
Currying says I'm gonna go ahead and
automatically assume that every input
that you give me is just one of my inputs,
and I'm gonna return you a new function.
That's expecting the next input and
I'm just gonna keep doing that over and
over and over again,
until I've received all of the inputs and
then I'll call the original function.
It's kind of like, automatic partial
application, one argument at a time.
Instead of calling partial over and
over, curry is going to
automatically do that for you.
>> Kyle Simpson: So
say we have this add3 function.
It takes an x, a y, and a z.
And we pass it into curry.
What we got out of that is an add3 which
doesn't know about any of its inputs yet.
That's different than partial.
We haven't provided any inputs yet.
We've just adapted add3.
>> Kyle Simpson: So
add3 is a function that's waiting for
an input.
And we call that with
the number 3 on line 5.
And that's gonna return
us another function
which is expecting another argument.
So I could immediately call it, or I could
just save it off into a function called f.
Do you see how f is a specialization of
add3?
>> Kyle Simpson: f is a function that will
eventually call add3, but
it already knows about the first of its
arguments.
>> Kyle Simpson: So
then later, I could call f again and
give it another input.
And I could store off that result and
now P is a specialization of F
which is a specialization of add 3.
You follow that reasoning?
I just create more and more specialization
every time I provide a new argument,
what I get back is a function that's
more specialized than the one before it.
And eventually, Line 9,
I provide the third and
final expected input, and
it calls the original function under
the covers with all three inputs,
and I get back my result 12,
3, plus 4, plus 5.
>> Kyle Simpson: So
you notice I didn't need to use
currying on any of line 5, line 7,
line 9, or line 11.
>> Kyle Simpson: I only needed the curry
once because currying says, I'm gonna go
ahead and assume that we're just gonna
keep partially applying over and
over and over again.
It automatically does that for us.
>> Kyle Simpson: So
I can string them out as separate ones
like I did on lines five, seven and
nine or I can do it altogether
like I did on line 11.
Does line 11 look familiar to you at all?
>> Kyle Simpson: Does
that look like something we did in the,
>> Kyle Simpson: Point-free
exercise earlier on in the course?
I gave you that printIf function.
You remember you call the printIf
the first time you gave it an input and
it gave you a function back that
was expecting the next input.
And then that gave you another function
that was expecting the next input.
All I did there was manually
curry those functions.
I didn't automatically curry them because
I hadn't taught you currying yet.
But now, we see we did that manually and
now if we were to go back to that
exercise, we could go back and
use the curry utility to do
that automatically for us.
We could make a function that takes all
three inputs and then, just curry it and
have the same capability.
>> Speaker 2: Is there a way to
manually sub the curry function out?
It's not always built in.
>> Kyle Simpson: Curry,
the function utility itself,
does not exist built into JavaScript.
It is, however, provided in every
single functional programming library.
But you can define it yourself or
use a library.
>> Kyle Simpson: There is a utility built
in the Java Script,
that does partial application,
it is the bind utility the unfortunate
part about the bind utility
like if I said foo.bind is that the first
argument to bind is for this context.
And the subsequent arguments are for
partial application.
So what they did is they took
these two really useful concepts.
This context, partial application, they
stuck them together in the same utility.
Now, there have been many times when
I've needed this context binding.
There have been many, many more times
that I've need partial application.
There's not a single time
in the entire 19 years of
writing JavaScript that I ever
needed both at the same time.
It's never once happened.
I don't know why they stuck those two
together in the same utility because
those are two really useful separate
activities that never get done together.
It's just not a very common use case.
So, if you want to use bind, the thing
that's built into JavaScript to do your
partial application, you essentially just
have to skip over this parameter, just
past null as the first argument, and then
everything else will be partially applied.
So I could have said,
Add dot bind null comma ten and
now I would get the add ten utility.
>> Kyle Simpson: But
we don't have a built in curry yet.
I wish we would.
It would be nice and useful but for now,
you're just going to have to stick to
using the ones that are built in to
functional programming libraries.